Equals ignore case fixed (#1550)
Codecademy/docs: content/java/concepts/strings/terms/equalsIgnoreCase/equalsIgnoreCase.md

---
Title: '.equalsIgnoreCase()'

> Description: 'This method compares strings.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Compares strings in a case-insensitive manner.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Methods'
  - 'String'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
---

> The `equalsIgnoreCase` method compares the strings in the program and then gives an output of true or false. It is not a case sensitive method, so this method does not consider this as a factor while comparing the strings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.equalsIgnoreCase()`** method compares strings and then gives an output of true or false. It is not a case sensitive method.
```

## Syntax

> ```pseudo

Reviewer: This more of an example. Syntax should be more general. Like this:
```
boolean result = stringOne.equalsIgnoreCase(stringTwo);
```
Then have a paragraph after the syntax example explaining what `stringOne` and `stringTwo` are, and how `result` is determined.

String nameOfYourString = "the value you assign";
String nameOfYourString2 = "THE VALUE YOU ASSIGN";
String nameOfYourString3 = "Value you assing";
System.out.pritln(nameOfYourString.equalsIgnoreCase(nameOfYourString2)); //output of this will be true.
System.out.pritln(nameOfYourString.equalsIgnoreCase(nameOfYourString3)); //output of this will be false.
```

## Example

> The example below will show you how this method works.

Reviewer: The intro to the example should be more descriptive of what it does. And when the example produces output, we generally follow it with a ```shell block showing the output, usually introduced with a line like: "This example results in the following output."

---
Title: '.equalsIgnoreCase()'
Description: 'Compares strings in a case-insensitive manner.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Methods'
  - 'String'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
---

The **`.equalsIgnoreCase()`** method compares strings and then then gives an output of true or false. It is not a case sensitive method.

## Syntax

```pseudo
boolean result = stringOne.equalsIgnoreCase(stringTwo);
```

> On the syntax above, we have three different variables. One of them being a boolean type variable, the other two being a string type variable. As mentioned on the description of this method, `.equalsIgnoreCase()` compares strings in a case insensitive way, so if the values stored in the strings are same, the result stored in `result` will be true. Otherwise, it will be false.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the syntax above, there are three different variables. One of them, `result` being a boolean type variable, the other two being string type variables. If the values stored in the strings are same, ignoring the case, the result stored in `result` will be true. Otherwise, it will be false.

```

## Example

> On the example below, there are three different strings named `firstString`, `secondString`, and `thirdString`. To store the result two boolean type variables are created, which are called `firstResult` and `secondResult`. With the `.equalsIgnoreCase()` method, the values assigned to strings are compared. As a result, there is an output of true, if the strings compared have the same values, and an output of false, if the values assigned to those strings are different. Then, as mentioned in the beginning, those values are stored in two different boolean type variables and the result is printed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example below, there are three different strings named `firstString`, `secondString`, and `thirdString`. To store the result, two boolean type variables are created, which are called `firstResult` and `secondResult`. With the `.equalsIgnoreCase()` method, the values assigned to strings are compared. As a result, there is an output of true if the strings compared have the same values, and an output of false if the values assigned to those strings are different. Then, as mentioned in the beginning, those values are stored in two different boolean type variables and the result is printed.

```

```java
String firstString="welcome"; 
String secondString="WELcome"; 
string thirdString="Hello there"; 

> boolean firstResult = firstString.equalsIgnoreCase(secondString);

Reviewer 2: Add the following comment for clarity:
```suggestion
// Compare firstString and secondString
boolean firstResult = firstString.equalsIgnoreCase(secondString);
```

System.out.pritln("Is the first string equal to the second string? The answer is: " + firstResult);

> boolean secondResult = secondString.equalsIgnoreCase(thirdString);

Reviewer 2: Add the following comment for clarity:
```suggestion
// Compare secondString and thirdString
boolean secondResult = secondString.equalsIgnoreCase(thirdString);
```

System.out.pritln("Is the second string equal to the third string? The answer is: " + secondResult);
```

The example above will have this output as a result:

> ```output

Reviewer 2: Program output should be placed in "shell" block, there is no "output" block.
```suggestion
```shell
```

> "The example above will have this output as a result:"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example above will have this output as a result:
```

---
Title: '.equalsIgnoreCase()'
Description: 'Compares strings in a case-insensitive manner.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Methods'
  - 'String'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
---

The **`.equalsIgnoreCase()`** method compares strings and then then gives an output of true or false. It is not a case sensitive method.

## Syntax

> ```pseudo

Reviewer: You haven't addressed my earlier content on the syntax block:

This more of an example. Syntax should be more general. Like this:

`boolean result = stringOne.equalsIgnoreCase(stringTwo);`

Then have a paragraph after the syntax example explaining what `stringOne` and `stringTwo` are, and how result is determined.

String nameOfYourString = "the value you assign";
String nameOfYourString2 = "THE VALUE YOU ASSIGN";
String nameOfYourString3 = "Value you assing";
System.out.pritln(nameOfYourString.equalsIgnoreCase(nameOfYourString2)); //output of this will be true.
System.out.pritln(nameOfYourString.equalsIgnoreCase(nameOfYourString3)); //output of this will be false.
```

## Example

> On the example below, we have three different strings named firstString, secondString, and thirdString. To store the result we created two boolean type variables, which are called firstResult and secondResult. With the **.equalsIgnoreCase()** method, we will be comparing the values we've assigned to strings. As a result, we will get an output of true, if the strings we compare have the same values. However, we will be getting an output of false, if the values we assigned to those strings are different. Then, as mentioned in the beginning, we will store those values in two different boolean type variables and print the result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the example below, there are three different strings named `firstString`, `secondString`, and `thirdString`. To store the result two boolean type variables are created, which are called `firstResult` and `secondResult`. With the `.equalsIgnoreCase()` method, the values assigned to strings are compared. As a result, there is an output of true, if the strings compared have the same values, and output of false, if the values assigned to those strings are different. Then, as mentioned in the beginning, those values are stored in two different boolean type variables and the result is printed.

```

> ```example

Reviewer: this should be ```java

> String firstString="welcome";  //decleration of the first string.

Reviewer: I'd remove the comments from the example. They're over-long and unnecessary with the example description.

String secondString="WELcome"; //decleration of the second string.
string thirdString="Hello there"; //decleration of the third string.
boolean firstResult = firstString.equalsIgnoreCase(secondString); //We created a boolean type variable here and named it firstResult, and we store the result in it. Result being the output of true or false after comparing firstString and the secondString.
System.out.pritln("Is the first string equal to the second string? The answer is: " + firstResult); //both firstString and the secondString have the same value so the output will be true.

boolean secondResult = secondString.equalsIgnoreCase(thirdString); //We created another boolean type variable and named it secondResult. It will store the result in it. Result being the output of true or false depending on comparison of second and the third string.
System.out.pritln("Is the second string equal to the third string? The answer is: " + secondResult);
```

> "The example above will have these outputs as a result:"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example above will have this output as a result:
```

> ```

Reviewer: Make this a ```shell block.

---
Title: '.equalsIgnoreCase()'
Description: 'Compares two strings in a case-insensitive manner.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Methods'
  - 'String'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
  - 'path/computer-science'
---

The **`.equalsIgnoreCase()`** method compares two strings ignoring lower/upper case differences and returns true if the two are the same. Otherwise, it returns false.

## Syntax

```pseudo
boolean result = stringOne.equalsIgnoreCase(stringTwo);
```

- `result` is a [boolean](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/boolean) type [variable](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/variables) that stores the output.
- `stringOne` and `stringTwo` are the two strings being compared.

## Example

> In the example below, there are three different strings named `firstString`, `secondString`, and `thirdString`. To store the result, two boolean type variables are created, which are called `firstResult` and `secondResult`. With the `.equalsIgnoreCase()` method, the values assigned to strings are compared. As a result, there is an output of true, if the strings compared have the same values, and an output of false if the values assigned to those strings are different. Then, as mentioned in the beginning, those values are stored in two different boolean type variables and the result is printed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The example below uses the `.equalsIgnoreCase()` method to compare the `firstString`, `secondString`, and `thirdString` strings. The results are stored in `firstResult` and `secondResult` and then printed out:
```

> ```java

Reviewer 2: Please add the class and main function:
```
public class CompareStrings {
  public static void main(String[] args) { 
    // Place your code here
  }
}
```
This way it could be compiled as is if a reader wants to follow along with their own compiler. Also, there are a few mistakes with the syntax of your code, I've added corrections below:

//Declare strings
String firstString = "welcome";
String secondString = "WELcome";

> string thirdString = "Hello there";

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
String thirdString = "Hello there";

```

// Compare firstString and secondString
boolean firstResult = firstString.equalsIgnoreCase(secondString);

> System.out.pritln("Is the first string equal to the second string? The answer is: " + firstResult);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
System.out.println("Is the first string equal to the second string? The answer is: " + firstResult);
```

// Compare secondString and thirdString
boolean secondResult = secondString.equalsIgnoreCase(thirdString);

> System.out.pritln("Is the second string equal to the third string? The answer is: " + secondResult);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
System.out.println("Is the second string equal to the third string? The answer is: " + secondResult);
```

---
Title: '.equalsIgnoreCase()'
Description: 'Compares strings in a case-insensitive manner.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Methods'
  - 'String'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
---

The **`.equalsIgnoreCase()`** method compares strings and then then gives an output of true or false. It is not a case sensitive method.

## Syntax

```pseudo

> String nameOfYourString = "the value you assign";

Reviewer: @SancHard. I think you've been misunderstanding my comment about the syntax block. I want you to simplify it so it is just one line illustrating the syntax. So the whole ```pseudo block reads something like this:

`boolean result = stringOne.equalsIgnoreCase(stringTwo);`

Then I just want a following paragraph explaining the two string variables and the result.

Let me know if you need assistance or further explanation.

Author: @SSwiniarski  I would like to apologize because I should have asked you in the first place, so I accept that it was my fault. I believe that I've finally understood what you wrote so made another update to the file. You'll see the updated part down below so you don't have to check the whole file again. Please let me know if I understood you better this time.

## Syntax

```pseudo
boolean result = stringOne.equalsIgnoreCase(stringTwo);
```
On the syntax above, we have three different variables. One of them being a boolean type variable, the other two being a string type variable. As mentioned on the description of this method, `.equalsIgnoreCase()` compares strings in a case insensitive way, so if the values stored in the strings are same, the result stored in `result` will be true. Otherwise, it will be false.
